CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing <!-- omit in TOC -->

We are happy to see your interest in conteributing to the project. 

## Contents <!-- omit in TOC -->
- [Issues](#issues)
  - [Labels](#labels)
- [Branches](#branches)
  - [Temporary branches](#temporary-branches)
    - [Feature branches](#feature-branches)
    - [Bug fix branches](#bug-fix-branches)
    - [Hot fix branches](#hot-fix-branches)
    - [Documentation](#documentation)
    - [Experimental](#experimental)
    - [Work in progress](#work-in-progress)
  - [Stable branches](#stable-branches)
    - [Develop](#develop)
    - [Main](#main)
    - [Release](#release)
- [Pull Requests](#pull-requests)
  - [Preparing your branch](#preparing-your-branch)
  - [Areas](#areas)
## Issues

All development is tracked through GitHub issues in the repository. 

If this is your first contribution, we encourage you to choose an issue with the `good first issue` label.

If you want to work on something that is not yet reflected in an issue, please create one first to discuss the idea with the community. Add as many of the labels below as you see fit.

### Labels
- bug
- dependencies
- documentation
- duplicate
- enhancement
- good first issue
- help wanted
- invalid
- question
- wontfix
## Branches

To easily identify branches, we encourage you to use the following branch naming convention. Start with the category (outlined below), followed by the issue number (if available), and finally a descriptive name for the branch.

`category/issue_number/branch_name`

These are the categories.
### Temporary branches
#### Feature branches

Used for new features, that do not exist yet.

`feature/123/user-login`

#### Bug fix branches

Used for bugs that will be fixed in an upcoming release.

`bugfix/1342/picture-not-displayed`

#### Hot fix branches

Used for bugs that need to be fixed immediately and cannot wait until next release.

`hotfix/1523/login-issue`

#### Documentation
Used for branches concerning solely the documentation of the project. Ideally documentation changes are carried out together with the implementation of what is documented, but in case that is not possible, use the docs category.

`docs/add-contributing-guidelines`

#### Experimental

Branches with experimental features, that will most likely not be merged. Once a feature in and experimental branch has been validated, it can be moved to a feature branch.

`exp/implement-flux-capacitor`

#### Work in progress

Branches containing longer term work in progress, that has been started on but will not be finished anytime soon.

`wip/add-camera-tests`

### Stable branches
#### Develop
#### Main
#### Release

## Pull Requests

### Preparing your branch

Merging a feature branch back into develop after completion

```bash
# If you haven't already checkout the feature branch (here aptly 
# named 'feature-branch') that you want to merge
git checkout feature-branch

# git status is always a good idea
git status

# commit everything untracked or staged
# then checkout the develop branch
git checkout develop

# pull the latest changes
git pull

# go back to your feature branch
git checkout feature-branch

# now merge the latest version of the develop branch into your feature branch
git merge develop

# depending on how many changes you and other devs have made,
# there will be a few merge conflicts you have to resolve
# VSCode has a built in ui for this.

# after that's done, all that's left is pushing your latest commits to origin
# and you're ready to submit a pull request
git push origin feature-branch
```

After you have developed your contribution, it is time to create a pull request. Pull requests follow a similar naming scheme to branches, only with different formatting and the omission of the issue number (the pull request will be linked to the issue directly). In addition to the category, please include the area you worked on in the pull request title as well. The areas are separated into the different screens and components used. When working on a whole screen, the screen name as outlined below suffices, when your work is concentrated on a specific part of this screen, please use the part names as outlined below.

Example pull request titles: 
- `[Feature] Controversies: Random Spotlight`
- `[Bug] Scan: Merkel scanned as Amthor`
### Areas
- Profile
  - Controversies
  - Biography
  - SideJobs
- Votes
  - Overview
  - Details
- Discover
  - Scan
  - Search
- ElectionChances
  - FirstVote
  - SecondVote

Commit message:

add eslint and prettier instructions

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing <!-- omit in TOC -->

We are happy to see your interest in conteributing to the project. 

## Contents <!-- omit in TOC -->
- [Issues](#issues)
  - [Labels](#labels)
- [Branches](#branches)
  - [Temporary branches](#temporary-branches)
    - [Feature branches](#feature-branches)
    - [Bug fix branches](#bug-fix-branches)
    - [Hot fix branches](#hot-fix-branches)
    - [Documentation](#documentation)
    - [Experimental](#experimental)
    - [Work in progress](#work-in-progress)
  - [Stable branches](#stable-branches)
    - [Develop](#develop)
    - [Main](#main)
    - [Release](#release)
- [Pull Requests](#pull-requests)
  - [Preparing your branch](#preparing-your-branch)
    - [Linting and Style Guides](#linting-and-style-guides)
    - [Merging a feature branch back into develop after completion](#merging-a-feature-branch-back-into-develop-after-completion)
  - [Areas](#areas)

## Issues

All development is tracked through GitHub issues in the repository. 

If this is your first contribution, we encourage you to choose an issue with the `good first issue` label.

If you want to work on something that is not yet reflected in an issue, please create one first to discuss the idea with the community. Add as many of the labels below as you see fit.

### Labels

- bug
- dependencies
- documentation
- duplicate
- enhancement
- good first issue
- help wanted
- invalid
- question
- wontfix
## Branches

To easily identify branches, we encourage you to use the following branch naming convention. Start with the category (outlined below), followed by the issue number (if available), and finally a descriptive name for the branch.

`category/issue_number/branch_name`

These are the categories.
### Temporary branches
#### Feature branches

Used for new features, that do not exist yet.

`feature/123/user-login`

#### Bug fix branches

Used for bugs that will be fixed in an upcoming release.

`bugfix/1342/picture-not-displayed`

#### Hot fix branches

Used for bugs that need to be fixed immediately and cannot wait until next release.

`hotfix/1523/login-issue`

#### Documentation
Used for branches concerning solely the documentation of the project. Ideally documentation changes are carried out together with the implementation of what is documented, but in case that is not possible, use the docs category.

`docs/add-contributing-guidelines`

#### Experimental

Branches with experimental features, that will most likely not be merged. Once a feature in and experimental branch has been validated, it can be moved to a feature branch.

`exp/implement-flux-capacitor`

#### Work in progress

Branches containing longer term work in progress, that has been started on but will not be finished anytime soon.

`wip/add-camera-tests`

### Stable branches

#### Develop

#### Main

#### Release

## Pull Requests

### Preparing your branch

#### Linting and Style Guides

We use eslint and prettier to automagically format our code. ESlint also lints the code for Typescript errors.

```bash
# From the project root
# To use eslint run
npx eslint . --fix --ext .tsx

# To use prettier run
npx prettier --config .prettierrc.json -w .
```

#### Merging a feature branch back into develop after completion

```bash
# If you haven't already checkout the feature branch (here aptly 
# named 'feature-branch') that you want to merge
git checkout feature-branch

# git status is always a good idea
git status

# commit everything untracked or staged
# then checkout the develop branch
git checkout develop

# pull the latest changes
git pull

# go back to your feature branch
git checkout feature-branch

# now merge the latest version of the develop branch into your feature branch
git merge develop

# depending on how many changes you and other devs have made,
# there will be a few merge conflicts you have to resolve
# VSCode has a built in ui for this.

# after that's done, all that's left is pushing your latest commits to origin
# and you're ready to submit a pull request
git push origin feature-branch
```

After you have developed your contribution, it is time to create a pull request. Pull requests follow a similar naming scheme to branches, only with different formatting and the omission of the issue number (the pull request will be linked to the issue directly). In addition to the category, please include the area you worked on in the pull request title as well. The areas are separated into the different screens and components used. When working on a whole screen, the screen name as outlined below suffices, when your work is concentrated on a specific part of this screen, please use the part names as outlined below.

Example pull request titles: 

- `[Feature] Controversies: Random Spotlight`
- `[Bug] Scan: Merkel scanned as Amthor`

### Areas

- Profile
  - Controversies
  - Biography
  - SideJobs
- Votes
  - Overview
  - Details
- Discover
  - Scan
  - Search
- ElectionChances
  - FirstVote
  - SecondVote
